[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, and welcome.
I'm David Icke.
And today's subject,
the human mind game.
When people think about a
few controlling the many,
the obvious question is,
how would they do it?
How can a few people
control billions of people?
Well, I've talked in another
program in this series
about the web structure--
the hierarchical web
structure, if you like--
through which it
is orchestrated.
But its foundation
is quite simple.
Its programming the human
mind to see the world
in a way that suits
the agenda of the few,
pulling the strings
from the shadows.
I've talked in another of these
programs in the Gaia series
about the big program.
How human society is one big
program from cradle to grave,
downloading a
perception of reality
to keep the population in
servitude and in ignorance
of what is going on, and
indeed, ignorance of the nature
of reality itself.
But there are other means,
other techniques of perception
control, that are used
on us all the time,
day after day after day.
And one that I've been
highlighting for decades
is what I call problem
reaction solution.
See, if you've got
an agenda and you
want to keep from people the
fact that that agenda exists,
then you've got to make it
seem that the events that
are pushing your agenda
on are random and not
coordinated and not planned.
So say you want to change
society in a particular way.
Say you want more
centralization of power
or you want more censorship,
more destruction of privacy,
et cetera.
If you come out
and just say, we're
going to do that, without
any justification, well,
you're going to get a
reaction against that.
The population is going
to be saying, well,
what do you mean you're
going to do this?
What do you mean you're going
to take our privacy away?
to take freedom of speech?
What are you talking about?
You can't do that.
So what you do is
you provide an excuse
to do it in which you're
not actually saying,
we want to do this,
but saying, we
have to do this in the
light of what's happened.
And this is where problem
reaction solution comes in.
So stage one, you
create a problem.
It could be a terrorist attack,
it could be a government
collapse, it could be
a run on a currency,
an economic collapse, whatever.
Anything that would
give you the excuse
to provide a solution
to the problem, that
would push the agenda
on in the way you want.
And what you're looking at
stage two of problem reaction
solution is the reaction,
the reaction from the public,
which is basically,
do something.
You covertly create the problem,
you blame someone else for it
or something else for it, and
then, through a unquestioning
pathetic mainstream
media, you tell the public
the version of that problem that
you want them to believe, i.e.
not seeing who's
really created it.
And at stage two you're
looking for the reaction.
A reaction of a fear,
of anger, of outrage.
And basically you want
the public to say to you,
do something.
What are you going
to do about it?
And then at stage
three, those who've
covertly created the problem
got that reaction then
offer the solutions to the
problems they have themselves
created.
And I'm just going to give
you a quote from someone who
played a part in one of these
problem reaction solution
scenarios.
After the Second
World War, there was--
and people would be, I'm
sure if they're new this,
they're shocked to hear this--
a NATO operation called
Operation Gladio.
And NATO, according
to the propaganda,
is supposed to be there to
protect the West from danger,
terrorism, war.
It doesn't, but
it's supposed to.
But what Operation Gladio was,
was a campaign of terrorism
to justify more power
for governments,
for security agencies,
more destruction of freedom
and privacy.
Because the problem that the
Operation Gladio operatives
were providing were
justifying solutions
that would not have been
justified otherwise.
It operated in Italy, it
operated around Europe.
And this is a quote from a man
called Vincenzo Vinciguerra.
And he was a Gladio
operative who
was involved in a terrorist
bomb attack and was jailed.
He's still in jail,
the last time I heard.
And during his hearings he said
this about Operation Gladio.
"You had to attack civilians,
the people, women, children,
innocent civilians, innocent
people, unknown people
far removed from
any political game.
The reason was quite simple.
They were supposed to
force these people,
the Italian public in this
case, to turn to the state
to ask for greater security."
Do something.
What are you going
to do about it?
"This is the political
logic that lies behind all
the massacres," he said, "and
the bombings which remain
unpunished, because the
state cannot convict itself
or declare itself responsible
for what happened."
So number one, when
something happens
in terms of a world
event, whatever it may be,
a terrorist attack or someone
going crazy with a gun,
look at what the
solutions to that problem
are in terms of what the
authorities say must be done,
and question whether
those solutions are
good for human freedom or
whether they benefit those that
wish to advance human control.
Now a stablemate with this
interconnected relationship
of problem reaction solution
is another technique
that I call the
totalitarian tiptoe.
It's another perceptual
mind manipulation technique.
And that works like this.
You are at A, you know
that your agenda is
going to take the
world to Z. But you
know if you go from A
to Z in too big a leap,
the changes in society are
going to be so fundamental
that many people are going
to look up from the game
show and their sport and they're
going to say, what's going on?
Ethel, Ethel.
What's going on here?
What are they doing?
So you don't go in big leaps.
You use the totalitarian tiptoe.
You go as fast as you can
but not so fast that people
start to see the
pattern and realize
that it's all connected.
So you'll go from
A to B, and maybe
go to D if you can get
away with it, and so on.
But all the time, you're
moving towards this Z goal,
which is total human control.
And I have this phrase that
I use, "know the outcome
and you'll see the journey."
This is why it's crucial
to uncover what the agendas
outcomes are planned to be.
Because once you
know that, you can
see the stepping stones,
the totalitarian tiptoe,
to those outcomes.
If you don't know what the
outcomes are planned to be,
then all these events
just appear random.
Oh, something else has happened.
Oh, that's happened.
Oh, now that's happened.
But there's no connection
apparently between the two.
But if you know what the
outcome is planned to be,
know the outcome and
you'll see the journey.
Because you'll see
that these events,
through problem reaction
solution not least,
are using the excuses to
push us on to those outcomes.
So what are some
of those outcomes?
Centralization of power.
Anything you can use
and create as an excuse
to centralize power is
benefiting your agenda.
So we've had, in the
European example,
this incessant movement
to centralization
of power in Europe.
So it's now in the hands
of a few bureaucrats who've
never seen a ballot
box in their life.
And these incessant
stages of centralization
have been justified by endless
excuses, not least financial.
So the European example.
What you do in the
totalitarian tiptoe?
This is what happened
with the European Union.
They said, oh, well, we
need a free trade zone.
Right, OK, free trade zone.
OK, right.
And of course, you're seeing
these free trade zones
appearing all over the world.
Oh, it's not central
control or anything,
it's just good for jobs.
Good for jobs, yeah.
OK, so you start a free trade
area called the European
Economic Community-- the EEC--
or the common market.
And then you stay
like that for a bit.
And then you go, well, you
know, it would be actually
more efficient--
here in the market,
if we had more centralization
of power to coordinate.
And then it goes on, and
it goes on, and it goes on.
And through the decades
of the European Union,
at different points there's
been new excuses and new excuses
and new excuses to
centralize power even more.
And now you have
a situation where
a few bureaucrats in
Brussels are dictating
literally the fine
detail of people's lives,
including things like the shape
of bananas and stuff like that.
I mean fine detail.
It's why so many
people in Britain
wanted and voted to get out.
And then there's the
centralization of money.
That's another tiptoe.
Because if you look at
the way human society
is structured today, what
dictates human choice is money,
overwhelmingly.
And then you think of,
what is a definition
of freedom in the world
as it is structured today?
Definition of freedom,
indeed in any situation,
is basically choice.
The more choices you have,
the more freedom you have.
The fewer choices you have,
the less freedom you have.
And in the way that the world
is run and structured today,
money overwhelmingly dictates
how many choices you have,
thus how much freedom you have.
And if you can control money and
hoard the money at the center,
you are dictating choice.
And as you hoard more money and
pour more money to the center,
you are sucking choice, thus
freedom, out of human society.
And that totalitarian tiptoe
is how we've reached a point
where a handful of people--
not the 1%, the very
much less than 1%--
now have equivalent wealth
to the poorest half--
half-- of the world population.
And people call it capitalism.
It's not.
Not in the way that
capitalism is perceived.
It's cartel-ism.
It's controlling through
monopolies at the center.
And capitalism, if you
like, is control of money,
in the way that
people perceive it.
And so the more money you
can hoard at the center,
the more control you have,
because you control choice.
And that's where we are now.
I talked in this series about
the permanent government
and then the here today, gone
tomorrow political parties,
which people argue about
but have no power, really.
The permanent government
has the power.
So let's look at
an example of that.
People say that the
right in politics
is into capitalism, that side of
economic structure and the way
it's played out.
And the left is about socialism.
Oh, we've got choice.
Not as many choices as
we've got of bagels,
but we've got a choice.
Oh yeah, well that's
good, isn't it?
But have we?
You know, we're
seeing in America
now this word "socialism"
used more and more
on the left in politics.
We need socialism.
But socialism is just
another control structure
of the same 1%, or less than 1%.
They control by hoarding money
in the capitalist version
of their control system.
And through their
socialism, Marxism, power
to the people
illusion they control
by the hierarchical
structure of society.
So if you look at
what has happened
in so-called
communist countries,
whether it's the Soviet
Union or China or whatever,
you have a structure which is
sold as a people's revolution.
But at the end of
that revolution
the same elite's in control.
They may be different
personnel, but the same networks
are in control that were before.
And if you look at how the
control works in socialism--
non-capitalist countries,
as it's claimed--
it's by structure.
The structure of the society
gives power to the few
to dictate to everyone
else, not least
by controlling the military
and law enforcement
and imposing the will of the
few, in the communist example,
on the rest of the population.
So whether it's that structure,
control by hierarchical society
structure, or whether it's the
capitalist structure of control
of money, thus
controlling choice,
they're actually
mirrors of each other.
Because the outcome
is the same--
control of the many by the few.
And the other centralization
of power that the totalitarian
tiptoe and problem
reaction solution brings
is control of information--
the fundamental
control that dictates
perception, which is formed
from information received.
And where this whole mind
game is taking people--
and I'm not being wise now, I've
been writing this in my books
for decades--
is a structure that I call
the Hunger Games society.
Obviously, you know, symbolized
by "The Hunger Games" movie
series.
And this is how the Hunger
Games society would work.
This Hunger Games society
is designed to be a pyramid.
It is a pyramid.
At the top, you've
got the less than 1%
that control the
wealth of the world.
They control the
corporations, they
control the banking system,
the pharmaceutical cartel--
all the cartels, the oil
cartel, all of them--
and therefore have
the power to dictate
to human society in general,
even though they're a tiny few
compared with the population.
At the bottom of
this Hunger Games
society is supposed to
be virtually everyone
else in a state of
deprivation and dependency
for even survival upon
the decisions of the 1%.
And in this structure of
the Hunger Games society,
between less than 1% and
the rest of the population,
is designed to be a merciless
police military state.
And in the end, the plan
is to merge the police
with the military.
A merciless police
military state to,
A, impose the will of the few
on the rest of the population,
and to stop the population
rebelling against the few.
Now, if people just take a
step back and look at society
from that perspective,
it's unfolding
before us, like, by the minute.
You have the hoarding
of money, thus
power, in the hands of
fewer and fewer people.
You have more and
more people getting
sucked into deprivation, through
homelessness and poverty,
and you have the destruction
of what people call
in America the middle class.
A bit different to
the middle class
as we describe it in Britain,
but not a million miles apart.
And the destruction
of the middle class
is pulling more and
more people into
deprivation and dependency.
Now, this is not just
happening in the United States.
This is happening all over
the Western world, all
over the world.
And it's the Hunger
Games society
unfolding before our eyes.
And unless we start
to realize that
this structure unfolding
is not happening
randomly but by design--
cold, calculated design-- unless
we start to understand that,
it will just go on happening.
But if we understand
it's coordinated,
we might have a chance of
starting to pull back, and pull
back, push back, whatever,
against this totalitarian
tiptoe that is very quickly
becoming a totalitarian sprint.
I'll give you an incredibly
topical, certainly
in recent decades,
example of how
this combination
of problem reaction
solution and the
totalitarian tiptoe operate.
You look at all the
wars in the Middle East
that America has
been involved in
and Britain has
been involved in.
We usually come behind-- ruff,
ruff, ruff, yes, master--
in recent times.
And each one has been
given a different excuse.
But they've all
been, A, coordinated,
and B, long planned.
In the 1990s in
the United States,
an organization was
created called the Project
for New American Century.
It has been well written
about and often well condemned
by people that understand
what its motivations are.
And in September 2000,
it produced a document
which was demanding a series
of regime changes in the Middle
East, using American troops.
One of its phrases
was that we need
to fight multiple-theater
wars to regime
change a series of countries.
Those countries are
quite familiar now.
Iraq, Libya, Syria, Iran,
Lebanon, North Korea,
leading to regime
change in China.
This document was published
in September 2000,
and the people that wrote
it, who were behind it,
came to power
either in government
or in the background
in government
with Boy George Bush
in January 2001.
And what it said
in this document
is that, if we're going
to justify these regime
changes and these multiple
wars to the American people,
what America needs--
and this was the phrase--
is a new Pearl Harbor.
And the phrase in
the document said
this transformation, all these
regime changes they wanted,
basically would be
necessarily slow,
quote, "absent some catastrophic
and catalyzing event,
like a new Pearl Harbor."
One year to the month
after that document
was published, nine months
after the people that
wrote it came to
power with Bush,
America had what Bush
called at the time
the Pearl Harbor of
the 21st century.
As a result of that trigger, a
series of wars began to unfold
in the Middle East,
starting with Afghanistan--
and then going through that list
in the document ever since--
that was started
by 9/11, the Pearl
Harbor of the 21st
century, and have been
justified by different excuses.
Weapons of mass
destruction in Iraq.
Saddam Hussein.
Send the boys in.
Colonel Gaddafi in Libya,
he's killing his own people.
Send the boys in.
So is Assad now in Syria.
Oh, Iran is a
threat to the world.
And as I speak, they are
desperate to send the boys in.
Now, let's look at this from
the political point of view.
You know this thing
called political choice?
You remember that?
George Bush was a
Republican, and he
was controlled by the
neo-conservative network.
And so Britain-- ruff, ruff--
we had a poodle
called Tony Blair.
And he was the Prime Minister
and leader of something
called the Labor
Party in Britain.
The so-called left party.
Yeah, yeah.
And they invade Iraq
on a lie about weapons
of mass destruction in Iraq.
Why did they lie?
Because invading Iraq,
regime changing in Iraq,
was the agenda, and thus they
didn't have a real excuse
to do it so they made one up.
Then Republican Bush
and Labor Party Blair
get replaced by Democrat Barack
Obama and Conservative Party
Prime Minister in
Britain David Cameron.
They then oversee the
invasion of Libya.
So Iraq, tick off list.
Change regime?
Now we've gone
from those parties
to the opposition parties.
OK, now tick that off.
And then in the same period
of Obama and Cameron,
they started the process
of destabilization
in Syria, which has led
to catastrophe there.
I'll send in the boys then.
Problem reaction solution.
And then along comes after
Obama the maverick Donald Trump.
He's got to drain the swamp.
He's going to drain
the swamp he's
been swimming in all his life.
Oh, yes, I think I buy that.
And the Trump regime is now, as
I speak, at serious loggerheads
with Iran and wants a war with
it, really, truth be told.
So you have this list of
countries for regime change.
And no matter who comes
and goes in politics,
whatever kind of party
or color, same list.
Tick, tick, tick.
That's how it works.
Why?
Because the politicians are
here today, gone tomorrow.
The permanent government
is dictating events.
Why do we have so many wars?
Do you know many people in
your life that want a war?
I don't meet many
people that want a war.
But we keep having them.
Through human history,
war, war, war, war.
Well, if you want
to change society,
nationally or globally, in
a way that is irreversible--
it will never be
the same again--
nothing does that more
comprehensively than a war.
After a war, that society
is never the same again.
And when you have
an agenda that's
pushing the world in
a certain direction,
you have to keep destroying
the status quo so you
can move the world further
in the direction you
want it to go.
And nothing destroys status quos
more comprehensively than wars.
And it's something I call
creative destruction.
You have a status
quo, you have a war.
You destroy the status quo.
The world moves further
on down your road.
You have another war.
Take the First World War,
Second World War, as an example.
And you destroy the new status
quo, the world moves on again.
And that's what's happening.
And that's why there is
always money for war.
When is the last time you
heard any political leader say,
we can't go to war?
We can't afford it.
No.
War?
Money no object.
Homeless people?
Oh, can't afford that.
Well, can't afford
this, can't afford that.
War?
How much do you want?
This is why.
And if we're going to
get street wise to this,
we need to keep
asking all the time,
when we're presented
with a world
event and an
official explanation
for it, who benefits?
Who benefits from me believing
this version of events
that I'm being given?
And if it is
benefiting anyone that
wants to take the world
further towards centralization
of power, destruction
of freedom,
destruction of privacy,
destruction of choice,
then red flags should wave
and red flashing lights
should go off everywhere becuase
it's almost certainly a scam.
We need to stop accepting
explanations from officialdom,
in whatever form they may
take, from whatever political
direction-- it doesn't
matter, they're all the same--
and start to
question everything.
And that's the point.
There's a Russian TV
station called RT,
and it has this motto, "Question
more," which is better than not
questioning at all.
But it's not enough.
We don't need to question more,
we need to question everything.
See you next time.